Install @clerk/nextjs  
Run the following command to install the SDK:

npm  
yarn  
pnpm  
terminal  
npm install @clerk/nextjs  
2  
Set your Clerk API keys  
Add these keys to your .env or create the file if it doesn't exist. Retrieve these keys anytime from the API keys page.

.env  
NEXT\_PUBLIC\_CLERK\_PUBLISHABLE\_KEY=pk\_test\_dW5pZmllZC1mb3gtNTIuY2xlcmsuYWNjb3VudHMuZGV2JA  
CLERK\_SECRET\_KEY=••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  
3  
Update proxy.ts

Important

If you're using Next.js ≤15, name your file middleware.ts instead of proxy.ts. The code itself remains the same; only the filename changes.

Update your proxy file, or create one at the root of your project, or the src/ directory if you're using a src/ directory structure.

The clerkMiddleware helper enables authentication and is where you'll configure your protected routes.

proxy.ts  
import { clerkMiddleware } from '@clerk/nextjs/server';

export default clerkMiddleware();

export const config \= {  
  matcher: \[  
    // Skip Next.js internals and all static files, unless found in search params  
    '/((?\!\_next|\[^?\]\*\\\\.(?:html?|css|js(?\!on)|jpe?g|webp|png|gif|svg|ttf|woff2?|ico|csv|docx?|xlsx?|zip|webmanifest)).\*)',  
    // Always run for API routes  
    '/(api|trpc)(.\*)',  
  \],  
};  
4  
Add ClerkProvider to your app

The ClerkProvidercomponent provides Clerk's authentication context to your app. It's recommended to wrap your entire app at the entry point with ClerkProvider to make authentication globally accessible. See the reference docs for other configuration options.

Copy and paste the following code into your layout.tsx file. This creates a header with Clerk's prebuilt components to allow users to sign in and out.

/src/app/layout.tsx  
import { type Metadata } from 'next'  
import {  
  ClerkProvider,  
  SignInButton,  
  SignUpButton,  
  SignedIn,  
  SignedOut,  
  UserButton,  
} from '@clerk/nextjs'  
import { Geist, Geist\_Mono } from 'next/font/google'  
import './globals.css'

const geistSans \= Geist({  
  variable: '--font-geist-sans',  
  subsets: \['latin'\],  
})

const geistMono \= Geist\_Mono({  
  variable: '--font-geist-mono',  
  subsets: \['latin'\],  
})

export const metadata: Metadata \= {  
  title: 'Clerk Next.js Quickstart',  
  description: 'Generated by create next app',  
}

export default function RootLayout({  
  children,  
}: Readonly\<{  
  children: React.ReactNode  
}\>) {  
  return (  
    \<ClerkProvider\>  
      \<html lang="en"\>  
        \<body className={\`${geistSans.variable} ${geistMono.variable} antialiased\`}\>  
          \<header className="flex justify-end items-center p-4 gap-4 h-16"\>  
            \<SignedOut\>  
              \<SignInButton /\>  
              \<SignUpButton\>  
                \<button className="bg-\[\#6c47ff\] text-ceramic-white rounded-full font-medium text-sm sm:text-base h-10 sm:h-12 px-4 sm:px-5 cursor-pointer"\>  
                  Sign Up  
                \</button\>  
              \</SignUpButton\>  
            \</SignedOut\>  
            \<SignedIn\>  
              \<UserButton /\>  
            \</SignedIn\>  
          \</header\>  
          {children}  
        \</body\>  
      \</html\>  
    \</ClerkProvider\>  
  )  
}  
